Hello guys in this lesson you're going to talk about a very powerful future of Wordpress called themes
support.
So what a theme support as well.
Let's first take a look at the film we all see that visually.
It's still quite simple.
We have no logo no header etc. film support is a WordPress function that allows us to customize many
aspects of our scene.
In fact it comes in handy for those who want to allow the client or the user of the scene to make specific
changes to the theme.
Even though your client or yours user don't have any programming knowledge I start by going over to
the dashboard.
If we head over to the appearance menu we can see only a few basic options here.
Ever since install WordPress you can see the same options.
So we have nothing new here.
At the end of today's lesson we all have a couple of new options here.
They will allow us to make some customizations.
The theme to the dashboard to begin with.
Let's open up our functions file.
The first thing you're going to do is create a new function that function has nothing to do with thema
support necessarily but it will help us organize the code a bit more.
Let's call this function.
Learn W. B underscore config.
And here we will be concentrating all the code that has any relation with the theme configuration itself.
So for example I'm going to move all the code related to the menus and pasted within this new function.
Let's call it new add action and say that this new function which triggers on a hook code after set
up seen
this time you going to pass the last parameter to this function.
This parameter handles the priority of execution for this function which will be zero.
In this way everything you create here in this function will be executed whenever the after set up thing.
Who is a variable.
I have already explained to you the dynamics of this mechanism in previous lessons so I'm not going
to explain that again.
Right OK now that we have everything place we can start talking about the thing support Well the ADD
support function is quite versatile.
If we visit the Wordpress codecs you'll see that it allows you to add things support various features.
We can't enable post formats post thumbnails custom background custom header and many other features.
All of these features are not enabled by default in wordpress but can greatly enrich our theme.
When you add them are going to start by adding theme support your custom headers.
They will be very useful to us as they will help us make this thing in their pages a little bit more
different and with a more attractive look.
So let's get started.
Let's just add a new line inside the function we just created.
So and seeing support and inside princes we want to pass that type of thing support.
You want to add in this case to be custom hyphen Hetter Most futures can also contain additional arguments
in the case of custom headers.
We can pass arguments such as a height and width for the hair image.
We can do this by creating an array of arguments miscalled args and past the following arguments.
Height 225 and with 19:20 with the array created we can pass it as a second parameter to this ad theme's
support function.
Notice that height and width are just two of the many arguments we can pass to this function.
You can see all of them in the codex.
OK.
And the link is available as an additional resource for this lecture.
Go ahead and say that and now head over to the admin area refresh the page and we now see that under
appearance it's got a new option which is this one here header.
Let's click here.
And the screen that you open is a very interesting feature of Wordpress called the theme customize or
if you have already customize the theme in wordpress possibly you are aware that this tool exists.
We all learn how to create more advanced controls that this chore.
At the end of our course for now you'll notice that this option here allows us to customize the theme
header.
This option is also available because we have just enabled support for header images in our theme.
So here we have some instructions.
We say that our theme recommends a header size of 1920 by 225 pixels precisely the values that we passed
to our function remember.
Let's go ahead and click here to add a new image upload any large image in this case.
Our image is at least 1920 pixels wide as we want the uploaded image with a high of at most 225 because
we see the screen here that asks us to crop the image first.
So let's do that and click on this blue button.
Let's repeat process and choose three more images.
A quick tip for you guys.
One thing we can do to make our head or image more dynamic is to randomized them.
For this we just click on this button here and now we can save and publish our changes.
Good but it's not over yet.
If we visit the home page and refresh the page we want to see our head image anywhere and why that because
we still need to tell WordPress where we want to have an image to appear.
Well the first question we have to answer is to which pages in our theme or which page types we want
to add an image header.
Ok let's assume we want a header in all pages that use the general template which for now the About
Us page and the contact page and on all pages that use the default template as well.
So the home page will not have a header.
There are two files that we need to change.
General template that HP and index dot HP that is the only template file that will be left out is page
home dot ph p.
So let's start with index that page be filed.
Let's open it and the header will be placed right here between the cathead a function call and our first
div deck.
Visually it will be positioned here where you see this red line go back to subline text once you get
ahead I'm going to paste here a code snippet for the header image.
Call this code can be found on the Codex page whose link is also available as an additional resource
for this lecture space here.
So the explanation can get a little faster.
So what does this code mean.
First we have an HMO image tag the image source is returned by a function called hetter image.
It will bring to us the full path for our image since our image is random with each page load.
That source will be changed dynamically to add a height and width for the header image.
We use the echo command to print out the hive and with properties of the image in the stack the function
that returns these values to us.
Is this one here called get custom header.
Now when you save this file you can check if the block page is can unload the header image.
So let's go over to our browser refresh the page
and look at this.
Now we have a header image as this image is random possibly when you refresh the page again we will
have a new image.
And here it is another Hetter image.
But notice however that image is too large for the page.
It is generating a horizontal scrollbar.
That's pretty bad.
So let's fix that.
Let's add another bootstrap class called I m g hyphen fluid.
It will make the image in question become responsive which I've been here.
Class ECOs.
And she has been through it save and refresh the page
OK ready.
Now we don't have that horrible scroll bar down here.
Cool isn't it.
Now that we know what to do let's repeat the process for the pages that use the general template and
sculpt this image tag here.
Open up the general templates but PSP file and paste the code there are you in the same location below
the square header.
File.
Now click on this link.
And here we are.
They also have a responsive header here.
Same thing for the contact page.
Very good.
Finally Arfin is getting more professional and attractive don't you think so in the next lesson we will
continue to support and work with thumbnails.
See you then.